Migrate to new Grid (#7)
DevExpress-Examples/blazor-webassembly-grid-export: Readme.md

<!-- default badges list -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T854758)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Grid for Blazor - How to use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export in a WebAssembly application

> The [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/403143/grid) component allows you to [export data](https://demos.devexpress.com/blazor/Grid/Export/DataAwareExport) in XLS, XLSX, and CSV file formats. You can also use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export in different formats (PDF, XLSX, and DOCX). This example illustrates how to accomplish this task in a Blazor WebAssembly application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/403143/grid) component allows you to [export data](https://demos.devexpress.com/blazor/Grid/Export/DataAwareExport) in XLS, XLSX, and CSV formats. You can also use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export to different formats (PDF, XLSX, and DOCX). This example illustrates how to accomplish this task in a Blazor WebAssembly application.

```

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Grid for Blazor - How to use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export in a WebAssembly application

> The [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/403143/grid) component allows you to [export data](https://demos.devexpress.com/blazor/Grid/Export/DataAwareExport) to XLS, XLSX, and CSV file formats. You can also use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export to different formats (PDF, XLSX, and DOCX). This example illustrates how to do this in a Blazor WebAssembly application.

Reviewer 2: You referred to formats as targets for export operations. While you probably can say in this manner, I would still prefer referring to formats as circumstances because export operation targets are actual things - files, streams...

```suggestion
The [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/403143/grid) component allows you to [export data](https://demos.devexpress.com/blazor/Grid/Export/DataAwareExport) in XLS, XLSX, and CSV file formats. You can also use DevExpress Reporting tools to implement export in different formats (PDF, XLSX, and DOCX). This example illustrates how to accomplish this task in a Blazor WebAssembly application.
```

![Exported PDF](images/exported-pdf.png)

## Quick Start

> The export application should connect to the same port that the Web API application uses. Start the Web API application, copy the port number from the URL, and paste the buffer content to the `MyWebApiUrl` [variable](./CS/DxDataGridExportingWithReportsClientBlazor/Pages/Index.razor#L27):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The export application should connect to the same port that the Web API application uses. Start the Web API application, copy the port number from the URL, and paste the clipboard content to the `MyWebApiUrl` [variable](./CS/DxDataGridExportingWithReportsClientBlazor/Pages/Index.razor#L27):
```

![Localhost Port](images/localhost-port.png)

## Overview

The code example uses the [GridDevExtremeDataSource](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridDevExtremeDataSource-1) to bind the Grid to an [IQueryable<T>](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.iqueryable-1) data collection published as an HTTP service. The [CustomizeLoadOptions](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridDevExtremeDataSource-1.CustomizeLoadOptions) property customizes load options before the Grid loads data.

> The [ExportButtons](./CS/GridExportingWithReports/Shared/ExportButtons.razor) component displays buttons that allow you to export grid data to PDF, XLSX, and DOCX files. When you click a button, it sends a request with the corresponding file format to the [ExportedDocument](./CS/DataSourceWebApi/Controllers/ProductsController.cs#L34) controller method. The method creates a report based on the Grid's layout and exports the report to a PDF, XLSX, or DOCX file. Once the export operation is completed, the button downloads the result file to your computer.

Reviewer 2: Why say "grid data" rather than just "data"?

```suggestion
The [ExportButtons](./CS/GridExportingWithReports/Shared/ExportButtons.razor) component displays buttons that allow you to export data to PDF, XLSX, and DOCX files. When you click a button, it sends a request with the corresponding file format to the [ExportedDocument](./CS/DataSourceWebApi/Controllers/ProductsController.cs#L34) controller method. The method creates a report based on the Grid layout and exports the report to a PDF, XLSX, or DOCX file. Once the export operation is completed, the button downloads the resulting file to your computer.
```
